---
layout: post
title: Building the Future, Part 3- Off Course
---

I was diagnosed with depression when I was eleven years old, when I alarmed a parent of one of my sixth grade peers in the car by declaring that I wanted to kill myself. I vividly remember how much I hated myself then. I knew I was unpopular at school, and thought of myself as stupid because I was less intelligent than the adults around me. I felt average in every way, even though winning the Spelling Bee and getting into advanced classes in school should really have sent the opposite message. I started meeting with a therapist, was put on depression medication, and it seemed as though the problem was solved after a year or two.  
  
Except the problem was not solved. The depression medications made me feel tired and numb, not “normal”, as we call it. I was no longer suicidal, but it bothered me that I couldn’t stay awake in class. I think this exhaustion made my brain more sluggish than normal, as well, which, coupled with the general “it’s cool to get bad grades” mentality at the junior high school I went to, meant my grades suffered. I was still reading and writing, as it was one of the few constant sources of comfort in my life, but I started falling apart in math and science because I got it into my head that becoming a fantasy author was my future to the exclusion of everything else.  
  
Exacerbating that problem was the poorly implemented math curriculum in my school district. I was part of a transition from an integrated math curriculum—they sort of blended geometry and algebra together throughout a couple years of school, but felt it more prudent to teach me how to use Microsoft Excel than to teach me to factor—into a system that separated the two. The result was that when I ran into Pre-Calculus in high school, I was woefully unprepared, and my impression that creative writing was my calling made me not care enough to go talk to a teacher for help. I failed a semester of math as a result.  
  
When I was fifteen, my parents realized that the medications weren’t working. My mom, who also has bipolar disorder, went to meet with a new doctor to discuss the problem. More therapy and a bunch of new drugs later, and I was being treated with bipolar disorder. The new drugs still made me tired, but I didn’t feel as hollow as before. It seemed like enough of an improvement to leave things the way they were.  
  
At sixteen, I got my first job as a cashier at Toys R Us. I likely would have grown to dislike it, but it was a decent job for a teenager. Toys R Us makes roughly half of their profit in the holiday months, however, so they have a habit of hiring a bunch of seasonal employees in November and then laying them all off in January. I was one of them.  
  
This began my long string of career hopping, which next led me to be a commission-only door-to-door salesman for Comcast (because everyone makes mistakes), a taekwondo instructor, and a Target cashier. I was always looking for a better opportunity, but was looking exclusively in unskilled fields. Fort Collins, Colorado lacks a writing community that talks about anything other than how great the mountains are, which I suspect I take for granted because I’ve lived here so long. Still, writing about the outdoors never interested me, and I didn’t have a great passion for writing for a newspaper—after all, I didn’t read the paper myself. I didn’t avidly pursue writing, as anyone who truly wants to be an author needs to do, and went to Colorado State University as an undeclared freshman with average grades and no scholarships, presuming I would figure it out while spending thousands of dollars to go to college for… something.