---
layout: post
title: How my mind was changed.
---

When I was 28 I got engaged to be married and it quickly became apparent that the odd jobs at odd hours I'd been working were not ideal for a healthy relationship with someone who worked 9-5.  I again started contemplating different job paths, thinking maybe it's time I find an actual career not just another job. Jake again mentioned that I could look for something that would get me into the tech field, maybe study programing in the evenings. "I rarely use a computer, don't own any fancy gadgets, still listen to music on CDs and read books on paper." I told him, how could someone like me possibly enjoy a lifetime in the technology industry?

A year later, I'm on my third 'long term temp job' and getting ready to say I don't wish to continue the contract because I'm board out of my mind for eight hours a day when I seriously start looking at going back to school because I just don't want to make $15/hour for the rest of my life, but what could possibly interest me enough that I could see myself doing for the rest of my life? Jake, now gainfully employed working as a programer at IBM, once again pushes me to learn programing "Give it a try, they even have some free classes online."  Free is good, I thought; I had spent most of my savings on the wedding and didn't want to invest in something I wouldn't enjoy or use. I signed up for a online six week Java class that had pre-recorded lectures and auto graded assignments.

I completed the class in 6 days. This isn't something I need to be a techie for, I realized, I didn't need to love the latest gadgets or transition to digital literature to make a program work, and it was FUN.  I called Jake and half yelled at him for never in all these years telling me that it didn't use formal logic, 'IT IS FORMAL LOGIC.' Why, oh why, had he never just told me that programing was using logic in one of a dozen different languages to tell the computer what to do?  

I immediately started looking first at 4 year schools, but I already have a degree and I really didn't want to spend another two years taking history and english classes that my decade old degree was no longer considered to fulfill. I then I researched bootcamps, it was really getting a job I wanted and a shorter program sounded great, but these didn't seem to provide enough general knowledge to do more than a single type of job and I wanted options. Finally I found Bloc's software engineering path, a year long program designed to replace a four year degree in regards to pure programing knowledge and theory; it was exactly what I was looking for.  
