layout: post
title: Three months in at Bloc.

Well, I did it.  I quit my job and got myself back in school, learning how to program of all things.  Never thought I'd be here: 30 years old, unemployed because I'm putting all of my effort into school again.  But here I am, almost finished with the first quarter of the software engineering path at Bloc.

The last few months have been great, I'm spending my days doing something I enjoy for the first time years.  I'm learning how to code in Ruby, better yet, it's hard.  There is so much more to understand that I realized when I completed that first Java course last year. So far I've completed the basic training curriculum and written a number of actual web applications. Most recently I build an business website for my wife's dog walking, and animal care business that up until now has only been advertised by word of mouth.

I truly feel like what I'm learning is actually useable going forward in the real world. Better yet I don't think I'm going to get board of using it because there is just so much to learn.  On the one hand I can create these great fully functioning websites (web applications their called) already, on the other a year won't be anywhere close to enough to learn everything about programing (even in just the languages on the curriculum). I suppose, really, that's part of what got me to enter this field is that I get to keep learning long after school is just memories.

Richard, my mentor here at Bloc, recently told me we're going to be working on some interview and career prep skills because where I'm at now I could get hired as a junior developer.  I didn't realize how quickly I would get to that point, I was prepared to finish the program before being able to find a job. One of the great things about Bloc is that it's possible for me to transition to part time if I start a job before I've finished the program.  Given that I hope to say in Portland, rather than move to a larger city with more jobs, I figure I'll start looking once I've built my portfolio and worked on the career prep skills that Bloc teaches, and not worry about getting hired right away.

My take away from the last few months is that I made a good decision.  The program is everything that I wanted it to be.  This is an area of study, and later work, that I will be able to continue working on without feeling like there's nothing left to learn and getting board, like I have so many times before.  That it's never to late to go back to school and improve yourself. 
