---
layout: post
title: Why I was never going to learn programing.
---

When I was 12 my little brother's annoying friend, Jake, told me I should learn how to program computers; it's what his mom did for a living and he'd learned a little and thought I might like it.  "No way!" I said, computers were something I had to use for an hour a day in my middle school lab and, other than playing The Oregon Trail when the weather kept us inside at recess, that was about it. I didn't enjoy using computers to type properly to how to manage a spreadsheet, the things we were learning in class, so why would I enjoy learning to program them?

When I was 16 Jake entered my high school and didn't know anyone so his parents asked me to look out for him.  After inviting him to join me and my friends at lunch one day he mentioned that his mom was teaching him how to 'code in a new language' and he was going to make a computer program all by himself, he said I'd like it and asked if I'd come over after school to learn some too.  "Doesn't sound like my type of thing." I replied, sure I used a computer to type up my papers for class and to do research on the internet, maybe occasionally I'd chat with my friends on AOL Instant Messenger but most of what I liked doing didn't involve them at all; my friends and I played cards and hung out outside, I enjoyed reading late into the night in the comfort of my bed and well away from my father's office that housed the computer.  I just didn't see the interest in using the machines more than I needed to, I certainly wouldn't want to figure out how to make them work, right?

When I was was 19 I was away at college studying philosophy, psychology, and the art of living on my own. Jake had become one of my best friends and was looking to attend university at our state college, the same school I was at.  Now our state university has 5 different locations that while all part of the same system offer different programs and different specializations.  I urged him to join me in Farmington but he said it wasn't going to happen, we didn't have as strong a computer science program as the Portland campus and suggested I transfer there after I finished up my last year because I could get  a second major studying computer science with him for only one extra year and why not because I was set to graduate in only three anyway.  "I don't think so." I told him, "and would you stop trying to get me to learn computers, I'm really a bit of a luddite."  I mean I had a laptop for school but I didn't play computer games or have a myspace account and I didn't appreciate any of the other budding technologies my friends were using. If I don't particularly enjoy using a computer was pretty sure I wouldn't care to spend a year studying them.

When I was 21 I had finished my degree and moved to Portland, the state's biggest city, to find a job and learn how to be a adult outside of college.  I regularly helped Jake with his homework in discrete mathematics, which was only formal logic anyway, and programing classes, the ideas for how to make something work not the actual code. He'd thank me for the help and ask why I wasn't studying this stuff with him, it did seem to come pretty easily to me after all. "I am not going back to school." I'd tell him; besides, I was only helping with the idea and logic stuff I still didn't have an interest in the programing itself, those were completely different things, right?

Over the next half decade or so I worked and traveled but was never quite happy with what I was doing. I'd start a new career and be board of it within a year; I was a school teacher, a scuba instructor, a cab driver, a bar tender, nothing suck.  "what about going back to school?" Jake would ask me, "you liked being a student and you could get a good job if you studied 'comp sci'."  He had to be joking, he'd never even finished school and was working as a security officer; he loved this programing stuff since he was a little kid but if he didn't want to work with it there's no way it would keep my interest.
