---
layout: post
title: Why I Chose to Learn Web Development
---

I have always loved animals. Growing up, I always wanted to have the opportunity to work with animals. I mostly wanted to either be a veterinarian or a zoo keeper when I grew up. Well, I grew up, went to college, got a bachelor’s degree in Animal Science and set forth into the animal jobs world.  I have been a doggy daycare attendant, kennel technician, rescue worker, zoo keeper; I worked in a research lab with animals, and I am currently a veterinary technician and own a small hobby fiber farm.  I have really sampled what the animal industries have to offer and honestly, haven’t been impressed. While I do still love animals, and I very much enjoy my own farm, I no longer wish to pursue this career path.  I have worked three jobs at a time, 70 hours a week and have still struggled to pay my bills. There is a major mental health problem in the animal (and nursing) industries, which even got its own term: compassion fatigue. This is a problem millions face and is one of the most pressing matters currently in the animal industry. Veterinarians have a suicide rate four times higher than that of an average person and the highest of all professionals. According to the American Veterinary Medical Association “19.1 percent of females who are veterinarians have considered suicide since graduation.” That is nearly 1 in 5, which is just horrible. I no longer want to be part of a profession where even the brightest minds are driven to these decisions. I no longer want to struggle to pay my bills. 

I have always been interested in computers and can even recall using a Macintosh to play games that helped me learn to read. I was in computer science classes and clubs in high school, but focused more on my animal related classes in college, though still used my computer for everything and played video games in my spare time. After deciding to change career paths my first thought was to look to the tech industry. I knew engineering wasn’t my strong suit, but I have always had knack for logic and puzzle games (my mantle is covered in different types of Rubik’s cubes), so I started exploring the different coding options available. This had me looking into the web development track. I was excited by the possibility of being able to learn online, while maintaining a job, and I was also intrigued by the flexibility some companies have for working remotely. I have an autoimmune disease that requires many doctor visits and infusions every other month. There are also times where I am physically incapacitated and would have trouble getting into work. I have been lucky that my employers have been very understanding in these matters, but if I were to work remotely, even while stuck at home, I could still be working.

