---
layout: post
title: Joining Bloc, My First Post
---
I always had an interest in math but I never saw my first line of code until I was in college. Like many others my first line of code that I wrote printed "Hello world!" to the console. However, what really sparked my interest in coding was when I wrote my first **_for_** loop. It probably looked something like the code below.

{% highlight c++ %}
// multiples of ten
for (var i = 0; i <= 1000; i++) {
  cout << i*10;
}
{% endhighlight %}

This simple code made me realize that programming can make such tedious calculations quick and simple. I soon transferred to UC Berkeley from my local community college College of the Desert and majored in Statistics. Luckily I was still coding but this time I was using R instead of C++.

After graduating I worked as a substitute back in my hometown. I also decided to go back to school to finish an associates in computer science. However, I always felt like I was missing something, a mentor. This is why I joined bloc.io's part-time web developer track. Bloc.io is a coding bootcamp that is completely online. Part of the program involves meeting with a mentor twice a week to discuss best coding practices and go over code that I have written.

The biggest challenge for me as an up and coming programmer is that I do not live close to a tech-city. It is very difficult to find like minded people in the Coachella Valley. Bloc allows me to connect with people from all over the world and also meet with an experienced mentor.

I will use these blogs to discuss my journey in bloc, school, and anything that I think is interesting.  

-dvcv
