---
layout: post
title:  My Experience with Bloc
---
Bloc was the key that unlocked the door of the future for me. I have had an interested and fun time so far. I can't say that it's *all* been sunshine and rainbows, but that's mostly my fault. At first I was super excited to start Bloc. I was anxious and wanted to get started right away, but after about six weeks I started to get behind.

This was completely and totally my own fault. I was struggling a lot with learning Javascript. I understood most of the material and was submitting checkpoints, but when it would come time to answer questions or attempt to write some code from scratch I found it terrifying. I ended up fighting Imposter Syndrome on and off throughout the next couple of months.

Bloc is a year long journey and eventually it did get better for me. So much so that I ended up getting hired as a Developer full-time. After I started my new job I started to get behind again. This time it wasn't so much feelings of Imposter Syndrome or lack of understanding but more of an incredible urge to stay ahead of the game at work. I would bring work home with me and instead of doing "homework" for Bloc I would focus on work. I wanted so badly to impress my new boss that I completely ignored my program for a few weeks! This was bad, very bad. Ultimately this lead to a situation where I was behind with school so I would get stressed out and worried that I wouldn't finish on time. This fed into my distractibility and made it hard to focus as work. I was taking longer than I should have to complete tasks and my boss eventually noticed. He and I had a discussion and decided that I needed to get caught up so that when I was at work, I was really "at work." He helped me go through the random checkpoints that I had chosen to skip along the way, as well as all of the assignments I had left to do by January. We developed a plan and I am sticking to it.

Even right now I am writing this portfolio way later than I should have. Regardless of my mistakes and my getting behind schedule, I have really enjoyed Bloc and I would happily recommend it to anyone looking to get into this industry. The one-on-one mentor program is invaluable. The checkpoints and assignments are written in a way that is easy to understand and the lessons are all supplemented with multiple resources to help you understand more as you go. If I was forced to go back in time and choose a coding bootcamp or online development school I would definitely make the decision to attend Bloc again.
