---
layout: post
title: My experience at Bloc
---
I started at Bloc about 5 months ago. So far, I have learned to use HTML, CSS, Javascript, Command Line, Github, jQuery, AngularJS, and Firebase. My course has been quite difficult and challenging, but I am learning quite a bit and am very please with my experience at Bloc. My mentors so far have been very helpful and attentive to my schoolwork, and have guided me in working the problems I struggle with out on my own instead of doing it for me. Although I have been very lost and confused for the majority of my time at Bloc, I feel that is part of the learning experience and I do believe I am retaining a lot of information. I could work on my studying skills as far as the syntax goes, because that is what I have trouble with the most. However, I do think I have a good grip on the logic side of things, and that helps a lot. I was very surprised at how in-depth and quick the curriculum was when I started, but I like the way it is set up. I think what I need to work on the most is practicing creating applications and using the different languages properly and the syntax correctly. I have struggled also with viewing my applications and hope to change that in the future. I am glad that I am able to have the opportunity to learn so quickly and to have help finding a future job. I hope I will be able to be as successful as I originally planned out to be. I expected the school work to be difficult, but it is much more difficult than I expected. I believe this is a good thing, because that means I will learn a lot more than I originally thought. It is my understanding that learning to code like this takes a lot more time and that is why this is so compact and quick. My goals in regards to becoming a Software Engineer are to be able to learn about coding and be as successful as possible so that I can find a good job and be comfortable in my field of work. I am very excited to continue learning through Bloc.
